The President:
I'm talking with you
from Miami, Florida,
where I'm visiting Miami
Central High School,
a school that's turning itself
around on behalf of its kids.
I came here with Jeb Bush,
former governor of this state,
because he and I share the view
that education isn't a partisan
issue -- it's an American issue.
But in a larger sense, this is a
moment when we've all got to do
what the students and the
teachers are doing here.
We've got to step up our game.
Our top priority right now has
to be creating new jobs and
opportunities in a fiercely
competitive world.
And this week, we received
very good news on that front.
We learned that the unemployment
rate has fallen to its lowest
level in nearly two years as our
economy added another 222,000
private sector
jobs last month.
Now, we have a lot
more work to do,
not just for the Americans
who still don't have jobs,
but for the millions more who
still don't have the right job
or all the work they need to
live out the American Dream.
But the progress we're seeing
says something about the
determination and ingenuity of
our people and our businesses.
What's also helping to fuel this
economic growth are the tax cuts
that Democrats and Republicans
came together to pass in
December and that I
signed into law --
tax cuts that are already making
Americans' paychecks bigger and
allowing businesses to
write off their investments,
freeing up more money
for job creation.
Just as both parties cooperated
on tax relief that is now
fueling job growth, we need to
come together around a budget
that cuts spending without
slowing our economic momentum.
We need a government that
lives within its means without
sacrificing job-creating
investments in education,
innovation, and infrastructure.
The budget I sent to Congress
makes these investments,
but it also includes a
5-year spending freeze,
and it will reduce our deficits
by $1 trillion over the next decade.
In fact, the cuts I've proposed
would bring annual domestic
spending to its lowest share of
the economy under any president
in more than 50 years.
Over the last few weeks, Members
of Congress have been debating
their own proposals.
And I was pleased that Democrats
and Republicans in Congress came
together a few days ago and
passed a plan to cut spending
and keep the government
running for two more weeks.
But we can't do business
two weeks at a time.
It's not responsible, and it
threatens the progress our
economy has been making.
We've got to keep
that momentum going.
We need to come together,
Democrats and Republicans,
around a long-term budget that
sacrifices wasteful spending
without sacrificing the job-creating
investments in our future.
My administration has already
put forward specific cuts that
meet congressional
Republicans halfway.
And I'm prepared to do more.
But we'll only finish
the job together --
by sitting at the same table,
working out our differences,
and finding common ground.
That's why I've asked Vice
President Biden and members of
my Administration to meet with
the leaders of Congress going forward.
Getting our fiscal house in
order can't just be something we
use as cover to do away with the
things we dislike politically.
And it can't just be
about how much we cut.
It's got to be about how
we cut and how we invest.
We've got to be smart about it.
Because if we cut back on the
kids I've met here and their
education, we'd be risking the
future of an entire generation
of Americans.
And there's nothing
responsible about that.
We've got to come together to
put America back on a fiscally
sustainable course -- and make
sure that when it comes to the
economy of our 21st century,
our children and our country are
better-prepared than anyone
else in the world to take it on.
Our future depends on it.
That's not a Democratic or
a Republican challenge --
it's an American challenge.
And I'm confident
it's one we'll meet.
Thanks for listening.